Title

    Programming Abstractions for Verifiable Software


Abstract

    In this talk, I will show how we can harness the synergy between
programming languages and verification methods to help programmers build
reliable software.  I will discuss three projects.
    First, I will describe P a domain-specific language to write asynchronous
event driven code.  P isolates the control-structure, or protocol, from the
data-processing.  This allows us not only to generate efficient code, but also
to test it using model checking techniques.  P was used to implement and test
the core of the USB device driver stack in Microsoft Windows.
    Then, we will look at fault-tolerant distributed algorithms. These algorithms
are central to any high-availability application but they are notoriously
difficult to implement due to asynchronous communication and faults.  To handle
such situation, we integrate a scoping mechanism for communication as part the
program syntax.  The key insight is the use of communication-closure (logical
boundaries in a program that messages should not cross) to structure the code.
This structure element greatly simplify the programming and verification of
fault-tolerant distributed algorithms.
    Finally, I will discuss a new project exploring how advances in rapid
prototyping (3D printers) may impact the development of software for robots.
These advances will soon be enable adding computational elements as part of
the internal structure of objects. The goal of this project is to rethink the
software/hardware boundary and integrate the two together. I will present a
system we are developing where components integrate geometry (hardware) and
behavior (software).


Short Bio

    Damien Zufferey is a research group leader at The Max Planck Institute for
Software Systems (MPI-SWS) in Kaiserslautern since Fall 2016. His research
interests lie in program analysis and verification, programming languages,
distributed systems and automated reasoning.  Before moving to MPI-SWS, he
got a PhD in 2013, working under supervision of Thomas A. Henzinger at the
Institute of Science and Technology Austria (IST Austria) and then he worked
as Postdoctoral Associate at MIT CSAIL in Martin Rinard's group.
